[Concept Entry] Rust Variables (#3469)
Codecademy/docs: content/rust/concepts/variables/variables.md

---
Title: 'Variable'
Description: 'A variable is a location in computer memory used to store data.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Variables'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-rust'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **variable** is a fundamental concept in computer programming. It represents a location in computer memory used to store data temporarily. Whenever there's a need to store a piece of data for use in a program, a variable is used. This practice ensures code reusability, as variables can replace the same value in multiple locations within the same code.

## Data types in rust

In the Rust programming language, variables are associated with specific data types. These data types determine:

- The layout and size of the variable in memory.
- The range of values that can be stored within that memory.
- The operations that can be conducted on the variable.

## Declaring a Variable

In Rust, variable declaration follows a specific syntax pattern. Here's a basic example:

```pseudo
let number: i32 = 42;
```

In the above example,a variable is declared named `number` with an initial value of `42` and it specifies its data type as `i32` (a 32-bit signed integer).

> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> This codebyte example demonstrates variable declaration and mutability in Rust.First,declare an immutable variable `x` with an initial value of `5` and a mutable variable `y` with an initial value of `10`. Then print the values of `x` and `y` to the console, then update the value of `y` and print it to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates variable declaration and mutability in Rust. First, it declares an immutable variable `x` with an initial value of `5` and a mutable variable `y` with an initial value of `10`. Then it prints the values of `x` and `y` to the console. Then it updates the value of `y` and prints it to the console.
```

> fn main() {
> 
> // Declare an immutable variable named 'x' with an initial value of 5.
> let x = 5;
> 
> // Declare a mutable variable named 'y' with an initial value of 10.
> let mut y = 10;
> 
> // Print the values of 'x' and 'y' to the console.
> println!("Value of 'x': {}", x);
> println!("Value of 'y': {}", y);
> 
> // Change the value of 'y'.
> y = 20;
> 
> // Print the updated value of 'y' to the console.
> println!("Updated value of 'y': {}", y);
> }

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```rust
fn main() {

// Declare an immutable variable named 'x' with an initial value of 5.
let x = 5;

// Declare a mutable variable named 'y' with an initial value of 10.
let mut y = 10;

// Print the values of 'x' and 'y' to the console.
println!("Value of 'x': {}", x);
println!("Value of 'y': {}", y);

// Change the value of 'y'.
y = 20;

// Print the updated value of 'y' to the console.
println!("Updated value of 'y': {}", y);
}
```
````
This needs to be in a code block

> ```shell

Reviewer: ````suggestion

This example results in the following output:

```shell
````

---
Title: 'Variable'
Description: 'A variable is a location in computer memory used to store data.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Variables'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-rust'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **variable** is a fundamental concept in computer programming. It represents a location in computer memory used to store data temporarily. Whenever there's a need to store a piece of data for use in a program, a variable is used. This practice ensures code reusability, as variables can replace the same value in multiple locations within the same code.

## Data types in rust

In the Rust programming language, variables are associated with specific data types. These data types determine:

- The layout and size of the variable in memory.
- The range of values that can be stored within that memory.
- The operations that can be conducted on the variable.

## Declaring a Variable

In rust, variable declaration follows a specific syntax pattern. Here's a basic example:

```pseudo
let number: i32 = 42;
```

> In the above example a variable is declered named `number` with an initial value of `42` and it specify its data type as `i32` (a 32-bit signed integer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example a variable is declared named `number` with an initial value of `42` and it specify its data type as `i32` (a 32-bit signed integer).
```

> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer: The Codebyte compiler does not support Rust. Can we change this to a regular example, with a introductory sentence summarizing what it is doing and a ` ```shell` block afterwards showing the console output of the example. Like this:

````
This example results in the following output:

```shell
Output from example
```
````

Author: Hi @SSwiniarski I wanted to know if the example i have given is ok or should i make a new one ?

Reviewer: @moha230 It's fine, just update as I suggested.

---

> Title: 'Variable'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: 'Variables'
```

Description: 'A variable is a location in computer memory used to store data.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Variables'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-rust'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **variable** is a fundamental concept in computer programming. It represents a location in computer memory used to store data temporarily. Whenever there's a need to store a piece of data for use in a program, a variable is used. This practice ensures code reusability, as variables can replace the same value in multiple locations within the same code.

## Data types in rust

In the Rust programming language, variables are associated with specific data types. These data types determine:

- The layout and size of the variable in memory.
- The range of values that can be stored within that memory.
- The operations that can be conducted on the variable.

## Declaring a Variable

In Rust, variable declaration follows a specific syntax pattern. Here's a basic example:

```pseudo
let number: i32 = 42;
```

> In the above example,a variable is declared named `number` with an initial value of `42` and it specifies its data type as `i32` (a 32-bit signed integer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The declaration above uses the name `number`,  with an initial value of `42`, and a data type of `i32` (a 32-bit signed integer).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It might be more complete if there's a section that explains the `let` and `mut` keywords before the example

Author: ok

## Example

> This example demonstrates variable declaration and mutability in Rust. First, it declares an immutable variable `x` with an initial value of `5` and a mutable variable `y` with an initial value of `10`. Then it prints the values of `x` and `y` to the console. Then it updates the value of `y` and prints it to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates variable declaration and mutability in Rust. First, it declares an immutable variable `x` with an initial value of `5` and a mutable variable `y` with an initial value of `10`. 
```

```rust
fn main() {

// Declare an immutable variable named 'x' with an initial value of 5.
let x = 5;

// Declare a mutable variable named 'y' with an initial value of 10.
let mut y = 10;

// Print the values of 'x' and 'y' to the console.
println!("Value of 'x': {}", x);
println!("Value of 'y': {}", y);

// Change the value of 'y'.
y = 20;

// Print the updated value of 'y' to the console.
println!("Updated value of 'y': {}", y);
}
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell

> 

Reviewer 2: remove the empty lines at the top and bottom of the block
